well joining us now on set is Muhammad
Elm he's a political analyst and
professor of media studies at the Doha
Institute for Graduate Studies good to
have you on the program the the big
question mark at the moment is what the
Israelis are talking about is this
operation in Rafer and how it's actually
going to physically manifest itself self
militarily that's the question isn't it
at the moment I think so I I think that
uh the Netanyahu uh government is is
still preparing uh to to go into to I
think that's still the most likely
scenario uh there are some analysts who
think that this is more sort of just
political uh posturing but I happen to
think that it's more likely than not
that they are going to go in with some
sort of a major operation um into Rafa
uh it remains to be seen how they'll
Faire if they do uh Hamas has According
to some recent reports been able to uh
be quite successful on the recruitment
front uh as the war has has gone on
Palestinians many some Palestinian men
have have seen that they just don't have
anything to lose and they've they've now
uh joined in the fighting um and also
Hamas has seen an uptick in uh weapons
they've been able to use uh sort of
repurpose many of these unexploded bombs
there are thousands of unexploded bombs
uh on the ground uh in Gaza um and Hamas
has been able to repurpose those and now
they're using those as weapons so uh
what seemed like a crisis maybe a couple
of months ago in terms of Manpower and
weapons doesn't seem like it's uh as
much of a crisis anymore so Israel may
may have its hands full in Rafa and of
course Rafa is still under attack we are
still reporting uh what we hear and see
uh with our correspondents on the ground
and we know there is a limited operation
which the Biden Administration seems to
be able to deal with right now but the
level of response has you might say
increased over the past 72 hours at
least right well I think there was a
certainly an initial shock on Monday
when uh Israel rejected the the ceas
fire I think the United States expected
that Israel was going to fall in line um
is the US is kind of acting as a uh a
proxy for for Israel in many ways and
this was the agreement that was that
that all sides had signed up signed up
for Israel rejected it there was an
initial initial shock now the US has
temporarily paused this this shipment as
a way to sort of signal to Israel its
displeasure um on the other hand the US
is kind of talking out of both both
sides of its mouth I listened to the
press conference uh tonight with Matthew
Miller at the state department and he's
still saying that there's Ironclad
support for Israel and he did use the
word Ironclad and now he's softening his
tone a little bit on Rafa he's saying
that the US only opposes a major
operation in Rafa he also changed his
previous discourse about ham Hamas he
used to say that U Hamas uh uh needs to
um surrender completely right and now
he's using a slightly different
discourse with regards to Hames so you
see the US sort of softening its tone on
it can use the Nuance of language can't
it for the international audience but
for the domestic audience it doesn't
work so easily because Biden's poll
numbers are dropping protests continue
across University campuses and in major
cities where those demonstrations
continue you know Matthew Miller can say
whatever he wants at the podium and so
can President Biden it's just not
winning people over is it it's not Biden
is struggling right now with the polls
he's losing in all seven swing States
according to uh the website 538 uh 39%
of us uh college students say they are
pro Palestinian now only 11% say they
are pro uh Israel uh more college
students are saying they uh support or
sympathize with Hamas than sympathize
with Israel uh and there are all kinds
of polling data that suggest that Biden
is in a lot of trouble in November that
might be one reason why they're putting
a little bit more pressure on Israel
these days I think Biden realizes he may
well lose this election in November
which is what happens mammad Al Master
it's good to speak to and get your
analysis thank you for joining
us make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al jazer